Problem 1:
  1. Given two numbers, the one you want to take a mod from is represented
by 'a' and the one used to mod it by is 'b'. If b is greater than a, then
the mod equals a and you are done. If not, divide a by b (a/b).
  2. Take the resulting number from this division, which we'll call 'c', and
then truncate it. This means that you only take the digits to the left of
the decimal on c without rounding the number at all.
  3. Multiply a and c together, the resulting number is 'd'.
  4. Subtract d from a (a-d). The resulting number is the mod value.


Problem 2:
  1. If the string has already been marked in inch-long segments as a result
of you already having implement the following steps on a previous occassion,
then skip to step 11. If not, get a marker. Preferably a Sharpie.
  2. Make sure the marker is of a color that will be crearly visible on the
string. If not, repeat steps 1 and 2 with a different color of marker each
time until you are successful.
  3. Fold the string in half.
  4. Make a mark with the marker at the fold of your string. This is the
estimate of how long 4 inches is.
  5. Grab the front tip of the string and bring it to the 4-inch mark,
folding the portion in between in half.
  6. Mark the new fold in the string in between the beginning of the string and
the 4-inch mark. This indicates 2 inches.
  7. Repeat steps 5 and 6 except fold the string from the tip to the 2-inch
mark. The new mark in between is the 1-inch mark.
  8. Repeat steps 5 through 7 but with the opposite end of the string. The
first mark you make on this step represents 6-inches and the mark after that
represents 7-inches.
  9. Fold the 2-inch mark to the 4-inch mark. Mark the fold in between,
which represents 3 inches.
  10. Fold the 6-inch mark to the 4-inch mark. Mark the fold in between,
which represents 5 inches.
  11. If the object is 8 inches or less, just count the number of marks it
extends to. That is how long it is. If the object is over halfway past one
mark but doesn't reach the next mark, then you didn't do a very good job at
marking the string and you should just round it up to the next mark. If it's
less than halfway, then round down to the previous mark.  
  12. For objects larger than 8 inches, put the string at the beginning of the
object and then stretch it the 8 inches across the object to the end of the
string.
  13. While holding the end of the string that is 8 inches away from the
beginning of the object, flip the other end over it so that the tip of the
string touches 16 inches past the beginning of the object.
  14.If the object does not extend past the point of the string (so the object
is 16 inches or shorter), count the numbers of marks on the string that it
expands across and then add 8 in to that number. That is the length of the
object and you are done.
  15. If it is longer than 16 inches, continue to flip the string, while
counting how many times you flipped it (making sure to count in the very
first flip you did). Do this until the object does not extend past the
outside tip of the string. Multiply the number of flips you've done by 8 and
then add how many inches past the inside tip of the string the object
extends. Use the same rounding method described in step 11. This is the
length of the object.


Problem 3:
  1.Have Roger place his one tentacle to the wall of coral on his right.
  2. Follow that wall of coral without ever taking the tentacle off. So if
the wall of coral folds right, Roger has to turn right with the wall of
coral. If the wall of coral folds left, Roger must turn left.
  3. Have Roger follow the wall of coral on his right and he will eventually
reach the end of the maze.
  4. Once he reaches the doctor's exit, go through it and go to the doctor's
office.
